Subject:
CCS 2008 notification
From:
CCS 2008 <ccs2008@easychair.org>
Date:
Wed, 2 Jul 2008 22:18:42 +0100
To:
Vinod Ganapathy <vinodg@cs.rutgers.edu>

Dear Author,                                                                    
                                                                                
We are sorry to inform you that your paper was not one of those                 
accepted for this year's conference. We received 281 submissions and            
accepted 51 of them; the selection criteria were very stringent.                
                                                                                
Below are (anonymous) referees' comments about your paper.  We hope             
you will consider the comments and, if appropriate, submit a revised            
version to this conference next year, or perhaps to another conference          
or publication that might be more suitable for your paper.                      
                                                                                
On behalf of the Program Committee, we would like to thank you for              
your submission to and support of ACM CCS 2008.  We hope to see you at          
the conference.  Please contact us if you have any questions.                   
                                                                                
Sincerely,                                                                      
Paul Syverson and Somesh Jha                                                    
ACM CCS 2008 Program Chairs 


---------------------------------------------

Paper: 177
Title: Securing Remote File Access using Working Set-Based Access Control


-------------------- review 1 --------------------

PAPER: 177
TITLE: Securing Remote File Access using Working Set-Based Access Control
    

Area: Access control for Remote file access

Problem: People increasingly access corporate files remotely via
personal computers or mobile devices. Malware on these personal
devices can compromise the integrity and confidentiality of files
accessed.

Solution: The proposed solution is to maintain a working set of files
currently accessed by the user within the trusted corporate network
and develop access control for remote access based on
this. Specifically this consists of two modules (POLEX)- which
automatically builds the working set by observing user access patterns
on a continuous basis and POLEN which implements access control based
on the policy built by POLEX.

Contribution:
1) The approach is clear, novel, and well-motivated

2) I think that the PVN and Speculative write are good choices

The Policy view namespace (PVN) provides a view of the files within
the user's working set alone and allows the administrator to
add/modify permissions on a per user basis. Remote writes that are not
allowed by the WSBAC are done speculatively in a vault area and are
committed when the user logs in from within the trusted network and
authorizes it. This maintains the integrity of the files for which
write access is not permitted explicitly by the WSBAC policy.

Challenges:
1) While there is a 1% error, how much work does this imply for users.  
Are the users going to batch approve all updates?  How does the user
know whether to approve an update?  More work is necessary here.

2) There is certainly a non-zero probability that the users will game 
the system by writing scripts to keep the working set sufficient.

3) Might we want to protect some of the files in the working set when
we leave the office?  I work think that this would be plausible.

4) The approach ignores system integrity entirely.  It simply adds more
work if you access a file from home/road that you did not access recently
from the office.

5) Yes, I know that my company could learn anything about my usage
on their systems, but this seems to be a bit more intrusive than the user 
community would like. 


-------------------- review 2 --------------------

PAPER: 177
TITLE: Securing Remote File Access using Working Set-Based Access Control
    

The paper presents the idea of using a user's file working set
to strengthen the access control to network file systems in
remote working situations. The idea as such seems a good one
and the authors present a prototype implementation and a
practical evaluation showing that their solution has a limited
implication on the network traffic. The language is good and
the reasoning in the paper is easy to follow and clearly
expressed. The authors also point out technical limitations and
problems in a good manner. However, the solution implies other
problems that are not so well discussed or even mentioned.
Firstly, the solution introduces security issues that are
mentioned but in my opinion quite superficially explained and
treated. Among them is the handling of encrypted or signed
traffic and the keys needed where the authors suggest keeping
the keys both on the servers and on the sniffer needed to
construct the working set. This is a highly unsatisfactory
solution that will introduce strong security concerns
especially if many different networked file systems are
accessed. The proposed use of ip numbers as a switch on whether
the access is remote or local is a bit dubious without a proper
signing or authentication mechanism. Secondly, these types of
mechanisms come with potential privacy concerns. These problems
are not discussed at all in the paper. Thirdly, the solution
creates inconsistency problems which, to some extent, have to
be handled manually by the user after entering the secure
network. This fact makes me wonder how well the solution would
behave in an environment with a dynamic cooperative
environment. And finally, it would have been nice to see a more
in-depth analysis on the effectiveness and the impact(regarding
acceptance and the impact on the working environment) of the
solution in a real working environment. 


-------------------- review 3 --------------------

PAPER: 177
TITLE: Securing Remote File Access using Working Set-Based Access Control
    

This paper proposes working set-based access control for remote file access.  The
assumption is that users may access files in a more secure setting (namely intranet) and
in a less secure setting (e.g., personal laptop via VPN or cell phone).  The approach
records which files a user accesses in the intranet setting; this is called the working
set.  When a user accesses files remotely, read access is limited to files read before in
the secure setting. Writing to files not in the working set is logged and committed later
when a user connects via the more secure setting again.  The paper describes an
implementation for NFS and evaluates its performance.

I am skeptical about the value of the proposed approach, for the following reasons.

1. The approach does not deal with the situation that the user uses the same laptop both
through intranet and remotely.  When a user extensively accesses files remotely, I
suspect that this is the more common case.  A laptop compromised remotely can have
malicious code that can access sensitive files while in intranet.

2. Writing to files not in the working set is handled speculatively.  Updates will be
committed later when the user connects securely.  I see two problems with this.  First,
the update cannot be seen by other users, making collaborations impossible.  Think about
the situation of several persons working on a paper remotely before the deadline; one
wouldn't want to use such system.  Second, try to visualize what a user does when
committing the changes.  Is the user likely to check what changes she has made?  Or the
user simply clicks okay and commits all the updates?  I think the it will be the latter
case.  All malicious updates are still committed.  No protection is offered.

3. The approach denies any read access not in the working set.  I think this will make it
very inconvenient for the users.  I didn't find a discussion about this.

4. The evaluation considers accuracy by comparing the second days' access with the first
day's access.  What about the situation that a user travels for days or weeks without
being able to connect to intranet?


Minor comments:

Section 4.1 try to explain Algorithm 1 line by line.  I don't see why that is necessary.
Basically, the system analyze the message and records which files have been successfully
read/written.  Is that right?  If so, then just this explain this high level intuition is
sufficient.  If not, then explain what other things need to be considered.

Page 2:  "This includes a descriptions of" 


-------------------- review 4 --------------------

PAPER: 177
TITLE: Securing Remote File Access using Working Set-Based Access Control
    

The paper proposes a scheme to securing resources while accessing from a remote location. It uses the concept of working set, and allows remote access only to this set. The working set is maintained for each user based on the resources the user accesses while the user is within the corporate network. The paper describes a system that can accomplish the above.

Several questions arise with this approach. The creation of the working set is based on the recently accessed files/directories while the user is within the corporate network. It is not clear if users prefer this type of arrangement especially now that more and more work is being done remotely. What if the file to be accessed is not one of the recently accessed one? Users, who can legitimately access the data could be denied.  There could be many false denials that annoy users. 

The paper presents the details of the system and its components rather than the methodology. The underlying methodologies to derive working sets is simplistic. Although authors mention that they use some inference mechanism, it does not appear to be based on any inference.

The notion of using speculation is also simple; any write operation on a file that is not in the working set is considered spectulative. No specific automatic reconcilation is not presented. If this has to be done manually, that could be a problem. 

Accuracy is one of the major issues. The strategies to derive working sets could be different for different users, for different organizations. The paper does not present how well the results are in a realistic environment. 

