We thank the reviewer for carefully reading our manuscript and suggesting
additional changes. We addressed all the concerns raised by this reviewer,
as explained below (we have elided descriptions of how we addressed minor
grammatical errors, as noted by the reviewer).


ISSUE: Page 1, column 1, line 25:  Why is the "E" in "KErnel" capitalized?

RESPONSE: This was automatically produced by the IEEE TDSC format


ISSUE: 1, 1, 37: "first quarter of 2008":  this is now dated.  How about data
from late 2009 instead?

RESPONSE: We could not find data from late 2009 (the website antirootkit.com
is no longer updated). However, we have cited the latest report from MacAfee,
which provides evidence that the rootkit threat is growing.


ISSUE: 7, 1, 48: "a kernel snapshot": change to "a (partial) kernel snapshot".
Explain that not all data structures are recorded, and that they aren't all
recorded at once in a consistent manner.

RESPONSE: We have added a footnote describing this issue in detail.


ISSUE: 8,2,13: "Our implementation remedies":  the remedy is not clearly related
to the problem; please spell out the connection, and why one might expect
this to be a reasonable and effective strategy.  Also, state here (or
cross-reference to elsewhere -- I couldn't find it, though) how long, on
average, it takes to collect a complete snapshot.  Also, the remedy is not
guaranteed to work, and that should be made clear in the writing.

RESPONSE: 
* We have described more clearly the problem that our solution remedies
  (i.e., the data structure extractor may fetch a large number of spurious
  objects)
* We have clarified the shortcomings of using such an approach.
* We have provided experimental numbers on the time to extract one snapshot.


ISSUE: 8,2,20: "rarely":  such wording is of no use to readers.  Please
quantify or omit.

RESPONSE: We have qualified this with concrete numbers.


ISSUE: 9,2,figure 13: In the text that discusses this figure, you might want to
explain the rather obscure terminology "hashcode" which seems to just mean
"pointer".  Also, put a "\" at the end of any line that you have split.
Finally, the two columns are not aligned; align them.

RESPONSE: The text of the paper explains the term "hashcode".


ISSUE: 9,2,48: "Daikon infers invariants ...": the first half of this sentence
is a general statement about Daikon, and the second half is a statement about
its output when run on your particular data.  (Is that data publicly available,
by the way?)  These belong in separate sentences, or the distinction should be
made more clear.

RESPONSE: We've removed the second half of the sentence as that point is made
again later in the text. Data is not publicly available at the moment but we
have plan to make it publicly available sometime in the future.

13,1,57: "90% line coverage":  Line coverage is irrelevant to a learning
technique that operates over data:  you should care about value coverage,
not line coverage, and that is not addressed by current approaches, even if
they produced invariants.  They would need to be tuned to generate *tests*
that produce good invariants.  You should cite Neelam Gupta, "Generating
test data for dynamically discovering likely program invariants", in
WODA2003, for an attempt at generating relevant test data.  For the
distinction between line coverage and value coverage, you could cite
Michael Harder, "Improving test suites via operational abstraction", in
ICSE2003.

RESPONSE: We have changed the corresponding text and have cited Neelam Gupta's work.


In addition to these changes, we also made a change to Section 3. We
consolidated all the figures in this section into a single figure (Figure 1 of
this manuscript). This change consolidated all the invariants into a single
location.
